=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Mojolicious::Plugin::Oro::Viewer - Show Oro tables in your Mojolicious apps


=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # In Mojolicious::Lite startup
  use Mojolicious::Lite;

  plugin 'Oro' => {
    default => {
      file => ':memory:',
      init => sub {
        my $oro = shift;

        $oro->do(<<NAME) or return -1;
  CREATE TABLE User (
    id    INTEGER PRIMARY KEY,
    name  TEXT NOT NULL,
    age   INTEGER
  )
  NAME

        $oro->insert(
    User =>
      [qw/name age/] => (
      [qw/James 31/],
      [qw/John 32/],
      [qw/Robert 33/],
      [qw/Michael 34/]
          )
        );
      }
    }
  };

  plugin 'Oro::Viewer' => {
    default => 10,
    max_count => 15
  };

  %# In Templates
  %= oro_view display => [Name => 'name', Alter => 'age'], table => 'User'

  # <table class="oro-view">
  #   <thead>
  #     <tr>
  #       <th class="oro-sortable oro-ascending">
  #         <a href="?sortOrder=ascending&amp;sortBy=name">Name</a>
  #       </th>
  #       <th class="oro-sortable oro-ascending">
  #         <a href="?sortOrder=ascending&amp;sortBy=age">Alter</a>
  #       </th>
  #     </tr>
  #   </thead>
  #   <tfoot>
  #     <tr>
  #       <td class="pagination" colspan="2">
  #         <a rel="prev">&lt;</a>&nbsp;
  #         <a rel="self">[1]</a>&nbsp;
  #         <a rel="next">&gt;</a>
  #       </td>
  #     </tr>
  #   </tfoot>
  #   <tbody>
  #     <tr><td>James</td><td>31</td></tr>
  #     <tr><td>John</td><td>32</td></tr>
  #     <tr><td>Michael</td><td>34</td></tr>
  #     <tr><td>Robert</td><td>33</td></tr>
  #   </tbody>
  # </table>


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Display L<DBIx::Oro> tables in your Mojolicious applications with support
for sorting and paging - normally based on query parameters.

B<This is early software, please use it with care!>
B<Things may change or this module may be deprecated until it is on CPAN!>

=head1 METHODS

=head2 register

  # Mojolicious
  $app->plugin('Oro::Viewer' => {
    max_count => 200,
    default_count => 10
  });

Called when registering the plugin.
Supports the parameters C<max_count> for maximum visible entries
per page (defaults to C<100>) and C<default_count>, for default
visible entries per page (defaults to C<25>).

All parameters can be set as part of the configuration
file with the key C<Oro-Viewer> or on registration
(that can be overwritten by configuration).


=head1 HELPERS

=head2 oro_view

  my $view = $c->oro_view(
    oro_handle => 'default',
    table => 'User',
    query => {
    },
    display => [
      Firstname => 'name',
      Age => ['age', 'oro-number'],
      Action => sub {
        my ($c, $row) = @_;
        return ('<a href="/delete/' . $row->{id} . '">' . $row->{id} . '</a>', 'oro-action');
      }
    ]
  );

  # In Template
  % my $result = DBIx::Oro->new('file.sqlite')->list('User' => $self->req->params);
  %= oro_view result => $result, display => [Name => 'name', Age => 'age']

Render a html table with results of an L<DBIx::Oro> table.
Accepts various parameters:

=over 2

=item C<cache>

Cache support as defined in L<DBIx::Oro/select>.

=item C<default_count>

Overwrite the plugin parameter C<default_count>.

=item C<default_fields>

Preselect a set of fields that can be overwritten by the query parameter.

=item C<display>

  %= oro_view display => ['User-Name' => 'name', 'User-Age' => 'age'], table => 'User'

Define the field display by passing an array reference with pairs of field names
(to display in the head line of the table view) and field values.

  %= oro_view display => ['User' => 'name']

Field values can be passed as simple strings, refering to the name of the field column.

  %= oro_view display => ['User' => sub { my ($c, $row) = @_; return $row->{id}; } ]

Field values can be passed as a callback, returning the cell value.

  %= oro_view display => ['User' => { col => 'handle'}]

Field values can also be passed as hash references, with the following parameters.

=over 4

=item C<col>

  col => 'handle'
  col => [qw/handle handle-class/]

The column to display.
In case of an array reference, the first parameter is the field column name,
following parameters will be added to the C<class> attribute
of the table column.


=item C<cell>

  cell => sub {
    my ($c, $row) = @_;
    return $row->{id};
  }

The cell content to display, returned from a callback.
Further values returned may be class names attached to the cell.
If the cell value is not given explicitely, the raw value from
C<col> is returned.


=item C<filter>

  filter => 1

If true, the field value is wrapped in a filtering link using col.


=item C<row>

  row => sub {
    my ($c, $row) = @_;
    return ($row->{id} % 2) ? 'odd' : 'even';
  }

Return class values attached to the row by a callback.

=back

=item C<fields>

An array of fields. In case this is defined, query fields are being ignored.

=item C<max_count>

Overwrite the plugin parameter C<max_count>.

=item C<min_fields>

Array of fields that are necessary, although they are not queried.

=item C<oro_handle>

The L<DBIx::Oro> handle, defaults to C<default>

=item C<query>

A hash of query parameters for L<DBIx::Oro/list>, defaults to C<$c-E<gt>req-E<gt>params>.

=item C<result>

A L<DBIx::Oro/list> formatted result array.
This will override all other query or filter related parameters.

=item C<startIndex>

I<startIndex is not supported - in favor of C<startPage>!>

=item C<table>

The L<DBIx::Oro> table to display.

=item C<valid_fields>

Give an array of field names that are valid for querying.
Invalid fields are ignored.

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

L<Mojolicious>,
L<DBIx::Oro>,
L<Mojolicious::Plugin::TagHelpers::Pagination>,
L<Mojolicious::Plugin::Oro>.


=head1 AVAILABILITY

  https://github.com/Akron/Mojolicious-Plugin-Oro-Viewer


=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2015-2017, L<Nils Diewald|http://nils-diewald.de/>.

This program is free software, you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License version 2.0.

=cut
